Narrator:
THEY'RE ROUGH.
THEY'RE NOISY.
THEY THRIVE ON ACTION
AND EXCITEMENT.
RIGHT HERE,
RIGHT HERE.
Narrator:
THEY'RE BOYS.
BUT BEING A BOY
ISN'T ALL THAT IT SEEMS.
I DID.
WHAT ARE YOU--
Narrator:
TODAY, NEW FINDINGS
ON WHAT MAKES BOYS TICK.
PARENTS TEND TO HOLD THEIR
MALE CHILDREN UPRIGHT.
IT'S AS THOUGH THEY SAY,
"STIFF UPPER LIP,
STRAIGHTEN THAT BACK, YOU'VE
GOT TO FIGURE OUT THE WORLD."
- Narrator: BRAZELTON...
- HE WHACKS ME.
THAT'S JUST NOT FAIR,
IS IT?
Narrator:
...ON PARENTING.
( theme music playing )
WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN BOYS AND GIRLS,
AND WHERE DO THOSE
DIFFERENCES COME FROM?
THESE ARE QUESTIONS THAT
HAVE ALWAYS CAPTIVATED
SCIENTISTS AND PARENTS ALIKE.
MY YEARS OF CLINICAL PRACTICE
HAVE CONVINCED ME
THAT THERE ARE
REAL DIFFERENCES,
DIFFERENCES THAT ARE THERE
FROM THE BEGINNING.
LET'S EXPLORE
THE WORLD OF BOYS.
IT'S A FASCINATING WORLD
WHOSE UNIQUENESS STARTS
BEFORE BIRTH REALLY,
WHILE THE MALE CHILD IS
STILL IN HIS MOTHER'S WOMB.
Brazelton:
IT HAPPENS INCREDIBLY EARLY,
AROUND THE NINTH WEEK
OF GESTATION.
HORMONES ARE TRIGGERED
THAT BATHE THE DEVELOPING
BOY FETUS IN TESTOSTERONE,
CREATING DISTINCT GENITALIA
AND MARKING
THE FETUS FOREVER A BOY.
FROM THAT POINT ON,
THE SEXES ARE
INDELIBLY DIFFERENT.
Woman:
LOOK, THE MOUTH OPENED!
Brazelton:
AS THESE ULTRASOUND
IMAGES SHOW,
SCIENCE HAS FOUND
THAT BOYS ARE GENERALLY
MORE ACTIVE IN THE WOMB.
Woman:
THE BABY'S MOVING.
Brazelton:
AND AFTER BIRTH,
IN MY OWN RESEARCH I'VE FOUND
THAT EVEN JUST MINUTES OLD,
BOY NEWBORNS DON'T TRY
TO HOLD ATTENTION AS LONG.
HE CATCHES HIS DADDY'S FACE.
HE WON'T LEAVE IT!
( crying )
Brazelton:
AND BOYS ARE JERKIER
AND MORE ACTIVE THAN GIRLS.
LOOK AT THOSE LEGS GO NOW.
THAT MAKES ME--
Brazelton:
GIRLS REACT IN MUCH SMOOTHER,
MORE MODULATED PATTERNS.
BY THREE OR FOUR MONTHS,
BOY AND GIRL BABIES
ARE RESPONDING DIFFERENTLY
TO THEIR PARENTS.
IN AN EXPERIMENT
WE CALL "FACE TO FACE,"
I ASK PARENTS TO ENGAGE
THEIR BABIES...
OH, YOU'RE SO CLOSE.
YOU'RE SO CLOSE.
...THEN DISENGAGE.
AFTER TRYING UNSUCCESSFULLY
TO RECAPTURE THEIR PARENTS,
GIRLS EVENTUALLY
WITHDRAW QUIETLY,
BUT NOT BOYS.
BOYS HAVE BEEN ACTUALLY SEEN
TO RESPOND WITH ANGER
TO WHAT THEY INTERPRET
AS LOSS OF LOVE.
PERHAPS THIS WILL
HELP US UNDERSTAND
THE MORE UNIQUELY
MALE VIOLENCE
AS THEY HIT ADOLESCENCE.
( shouts )
Brazelton:
BY AS EARLY AS THE TWOS,
BOY TODDLERS ARE MORE
AGGRESSIVE IN PLAY.
BY THE THREES,
THEY'RE MORE LIKELY TO ENGAGE
IN GAMES OF COMPETITION...
WE'RE SLIDIN' HOME!
...WHILE GIRLS FAVOR
GAMES OF COOPERATION.
BLUE.
Brazelton:
THEY ALSO BEGIN TO
EXHIBIT THE PACK BEHAVIOR
WE SEE THROUGHOUT
THE SCHOOL YEARS.
BUT IS MACHO
ALL BOYS ARE?
- ( laughing )
- HARDLY.
IT'S BEEN SHOWN THAT
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL BOYS
ARE AS SENSITIVE
AND PERHAPS MORE FRAGILE
THAN LITTLE GIRLS.
AND BOYS ARE
MUCH MORE LIKELY
TO EXHIBIT SIGNS OF ATTENTION
DEFICIT AND HYPERACTIVITY.
( boys shouting )
Brazelton:
WHAT DOES ALL THIS MEAN?
THAT BIOLOGY IS DESTINY?
- GET HIM HOME!
- Brazelton: NOT NECESSARILY.
Woman:
I'M GONNA USE
YOU AS HELPERS.
Brazelton:
IT DEPENDS ON HOW WE UNDERSTAND
AND RESPOND TO OUR BOYS.
Woman:
LET'S OPEN THE MEETING BY
SAYING THE BOY SCOUT PROMISE.
Brazelton:
SENSITIVE NURTURING CAN SHAPE
WHAT NATURE HAS BEGUN,
HELPING OUR BOYS GROW
TO BECOME HEALTHY,
HAPPY AND COMPLETE
HUMAN BEINGS.
PERFECT.
TODAY WE HAVE
CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM IBM.
CAN PARENTS
FIND INFORMATION
- ABOUT BOYS' DEVELOPMENT
ON THE INTERNET?
- ABSOLUTELY.
THERE ARE A LOT OF WONDERFUL
SITES FOR PARENTS
ON THE INTERNET,
AND THE ONE WE'LL LOOK
AT TODAY IS THE PAMPERS
PARENTING INSTITUTE.
HERE, PARENTS CAN
ENTER IN A SEARCH WORD
AND FIND OUT INFORMATION
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT BOYS.
THEY CAN ENTER INTO A CHAT ROOM
AND ENGAGE WITH OTHER PARENTS.
THEY CAN ACTUALLY GO
TO A BULLETIN BOARD
AND SEE WHAT INFORMATION
HAS ALREADY BEEN POSTED.
THEY CAN ALSO ASK
AN EXPERT A QUESTION,
AND WE HAVE A QUESTION
FOR YOU TODAY, BERRY.
IT COMES FROM MARTHA
IN WICHITA, KANSAS.
HER QUESTION IS,
"IS IT HEALTHY FOR
PRE-SCHOOL BOYS
TO ENGAGE IN PRETEND
PLAY WITH TOY WEAPONS,
FOR EXAMPLE, TOY SWORDS,
ARMY TANKS AND SO FORTH?
WILL SUCH PLAY ENCOURAGE
AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR,
OR WILL IT HELP CHILDREN
ACT OUT THEIR AGGRESSION
IN A CONSTRUCTIVE WAY,
OR WILL IT HAVE NO
PARTICULAR EFFECT?"
YOUR QUESTION REFLECTS SOMETHING
I THINK WE'RE ALL WORRIED ABOUT.
WE LIVE IN A VIOLENT SOCIETY AND
WE WONDER HOW WE CAN KEEP KIDS
FROM BEING VIOLENT
LATER ON.
I THINK ALL LITTLE BOYS
THOUGH, FOUR AND FIVE,
ARE BOUND TO
BE AGGRESSIVE.
THIS IS A NORMAL PHASE
IN THEIR DEVELOPMENT,
AND I THINK THEY ARE LEARNING
HOW TO CONTROL THIS
JUST AT THAT TIME.
YOU PUT TWO
FOUR-YEAR-OLDS TOGETHER,
AND THEY LOCK AND ROLL
AROUND ON THE FLOOR.
TOY GUNS MAY ADD TO THIS,
BUT I THINK WHETHER
YOU ADD A TOY GUN OR NOT,
THIS IS THE WAY FOUR-YEAR-OLD
LITTLE BOYS COME
IN TO MY OFFICE.
THEY WANT TO POINT
AT ME AND BANG AT ME,
AND I KNOW WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING:
"YOU KNOW, I'D LIKE TO
GET OUT OF THIS OFFICE.
I MEAN, IF YOU DON'T LET ME OUT,
I'M GONNA BANG YOU."
AND, YOU KNOW, I THINK
THAT'S VERY HEALTHY.
THEY ARE LEARNING HOW TO
DEAL WITH THESE FEELINGS.
Brazelton:
FOR MORE RESOURCES,
VISIT US ON-LINE AT:
ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT: pampers.com.
JOINING ME TODAY
IS DR. KYLE PRUETT,
PROFESSOR OF PSYCHIATRY
AT THE YALE CHILD STUDY CENTER
AND THE AUTHOR
OF A NEW BOOK,
"ME, MYSELF AND I."
KYLE, AS WE'VE SEEN,
A LOT OF THE THINGS
THAT WE BELIEVE ABOUT BOYS
AREN'T
NECESSARILY TRUE.
THIS IMAGE, BERRY,
THAT WE KIND OF HOLD ON TO
OF THIS LITTLE MACHO,
WARRIOR,
INDEPENDENT
LITTLE BOY
IS JUST ABOUT
180 DEGREES OFF.
WE KNOW THAT BOYS, FOR EXAMPLE,
ARE MORE VULNERABLE TO DISEASES,
ESPECIALLY AS PREMATURES
THAT, UH--
AND WHEN THEY'RE OLDER,
THEY DON'T LIVE AS LONG
AND THEY HAVE DISEASES THAT
CAN SHORTEN THEIR LIFESPAN
MUCH MORE THAN WOMEN.
DO YOU THINK THIS IS GENETIC,
OR DO YOU THINK IT'S
ENVIRONMENTAL?
WELL, THERE ARE SOME
INTERESTING DIFFERENCES
RIGHT FROM THE BEGINNING, BERRY.
THE MALE FETUS IS MORE ACTIVE
IN UTERO THAN IS THE FEMALE.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT BOYS
MOVE AROUND MORE
EVEN IN THE BASINET
WHEN THEY'RE BRAND-NEW.
THEY MOVE THEIR LIMBS AND
THEIR TORSO AROUND MORE.
ALSO, PARENTS
FROM VERY EARLY ON
ARE HOLDING THEIR MALE BABIES
DIFFERENTLY THAN THEIR FEMALES.
PARENTS TEND TO HOLD
THEIR MALE CHILDREN UPRIGHT
SOONER AND MORE OFTEN
THAN THEIR FEMALE CHILDREN.
IT'S AS THOUGH
THEY SAY,
"STIFF UPPER LIP,
STRAIGHTEN THAT BACK.
YOU'VE GOT TO FIGURE
OUT THE WORLD SOONER
THAN SHE DOES,
AND SO WE'RE
GONNA SHOW IT
TO YOU RIGHT NOW."
AND YOU KNOW, WE TALK
ABOUT VIOLENCE LATER ON,
AND I THINK THAT BEGINS
WAY BACK IN LEARNING HOW
TO CONTROL YOUR STATES--
YOUR STATES OF AWAKENESS,
OF ALERTNESS, OF CRYING.
AND WITH THE HOLDING CLOSE,
YOU'RE TEACHING A LITTLE GIRL
HOW TO CONTROL HERSELF
WAY BACK THERE,
AND PUSHING A LITTLE BOY TO
NOT CONTROL HIMSELF, IN A WAY.
AND WE ARE NOT DOING A GOOD JOB
OF AFFIRMING FOR LITTLE BOYS
THAT THEIR NURTURING
AND THEIR LOVING
AND THEIR AFFECTIONATE, INTIMATE
SIDES ARE TERRIBLY IMPORTANT,
NOT ONLY TO
THEIR WELL-BEING,
BUT TO THE RELATIONSHIPS
THEY'RE GONNA HAVE
DOWN THE ROAD.
AND WHEN WE TRY
TO KICK THESE BOYS
OUT ON TO THE HIGH WIRE
WITHOUT THE SAFETY NET
TOO SOON, THEY GET HURT--
EMOTIONALLY AND PHYSICALLY
THEY GET BANGED UP,
AND THEY HAVE A SENSE
OF DEPRESSION AND LONGING
WHEN YOU TALK TO THEM.
THEY DON'T FEEL VERY COMFORTABLE
ABOUT THEIR CONFIDENCE,
AND THEY HAVE A HARD TIME
SUSTAINING FRIENDSHIPS,
THEY'RE ENVIOUS
OF THE GIRLS WHO ARE
DOING WELL IN SCHOOL.
AND A LOT OF THOSE BOYS
LOOK KIND OF LONGINGLY
OVER THEIR SHOULDER
AT WHAT'S GOING ON IN
THE DOLL CORNER, BECAUSE
THEY HAVE GREAT IDEAS.
THEY KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON
IN RELATIONSHIPS AND
THEY WANT TO STAY THERE,
AND THE BLOCK CORNER
MAY NOT BE THE
PLACE FOR THEM.
- THEY GRAVITATE TO TRUCKS,
THEY DON'T GO TO BLOCKS.
- NO, THAT'S RIGHT.
- BUT THEY BANG TRUCKS.
- THEY BANG TRUCKS.
- YOU WOULDN'T INTERFERE
WITH THAT, WOULD YOU?
- NO, I WOULDN'T.
- I LOVE THAT BANGING.
- I DO TOO.
AND THEY ALL COME
INTO MY OFFICE AND
BOOM, BOOM, BOOM
AT THE AGE OF FOUR AND FIVE,
AS IF THEY WERE CARRYING GUNS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE NEED
TO DO IS NOT SORT OF OVERREACT
TO THAT IN OUR YOUNG CHILDREN,
BECAUSE IT IS PART
OF THEIR IMAGINATION,
AND WHEN WE
GET THE WILLIES
ABOUT IT AND SAY,
"OH, MY GOSH.
ZERO TOLERANCE
FOR AGGRESSION,"
WE ARE TELLING OUR BOYS,
NONE OF THAT IS ACCEPTABLE.
BUT IN FACT,
LITTLE GIRLS ALSO LOVE
BEING AGGRESSIVE TOO.
THEY'RE A LITTLE MORE
AGGRESSIVE SOCIALLY.
BOYS ARE A LITTLE MORE
AGGRESSIVE PHYSICALLY.
WE NEED TO LET THESE
LITTLE BOYS KNOW
THAT PLAY IS A VERY IMPORTANT
PART OF WHO THEY ARE,
AND THEY CAN BE ROBUST
AND POWERFUL AND STRONG
IN THEIR PLAY,
BUT THERE ARE RULES,
AND YOU CAN'T HURT PEOPLE,
AND YOU'VE GOTTA BE--
- IT'S SORT OF A FINE BALANCE,
- YES, IT IS.
BETWEEN VALUING
WHAT THEY BRING
IN THE WAY OF AGGRESSION
AND OUTGOINGNESS,
AND LETTING 'EM LEARN HOW
TO MANAGE THOSE CONTROLS
LONG BEFORE THEY NEED
'EM IN ADOLESCENCE.
WE SPEND A LOT OF TIME
TALKING TO GIRLS
ABOUT THE EFFECT OF
THEIR BEHAVIOR ON OTHER
PEOPLE AROUND THEM.
WHEN PARENTS
TAKE THE TIME
TO EXPLAIN THAT,
THAT THEIR BOYS BEGIN
TO MANAGE THEIR OWN
IMPULSES BETTER
BECAUSE THEY
UNDERSTAND THE CONTEXT
IN WHICH IT OCCURS.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE...
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
Brazelton:
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Emcee:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
- HI.
I'M WONDERING IF YOU CAN
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
HOW PARENTS CAN
BAN GUNPLAY,
OR WHAT THEY
SHOULD DO.
I HAVE A SON WHO LIKES
TO PRETEND THAT HE HAS GUNS
BY USING STICKS
OR BUILDING LEGOS,
AND I DON'T ALLOW HIM
TO PLAY WITH GUNS,
OR I DON'T
BUY TOY GUNS
FOR HIM TO USE.
ESPECIALLY
IN TODAY'S SOCIETY
WHERE WE HAVE
SO MUCH VIOLENCE,
I'M REALLY CONCERNED
ABOUT, YOU KNOW,
HIM USING ANYTHING
AS A GUN,
- I KNOW.
- AND HOW I CAN KIND OF
DIVERT THAT ATTENTION.
I THINK THERE ARE
TWO QUESTIONS.
ONE IS, CAN WE PREVENT
GUNPLAY IN LITTLE BOYS.
MOSTLY BOYS.
GIRLS, MAYBE SOME DO.
AND I SUSPECT NOT.
I THINK FOUR AND FIVE THEY'RE
ALMOST BOUND TO MAKE GUNS
OUT OF THEIR
FINGERS OR,
- YOU KNOW, AS YOU SAY--
- I HAVEN'T SEEN GIRLS DO THAT.
DO YOU THINK THEY DO?
- THEY DON'T DO IT.
- I ONLY HAVE BOYS.
MAYBE THEY WILL,
BUT IT IS MOSTLY
LITTLE BOYS.
AND IT'S MOSTLY AT A TIME
WHEN THEY'RE LEARNING ABOUT
THEIR OWN AGGRESSIVE
FEELINGS AT FOUR AND FIVE.
THAT'S, YOU KNOW,
THE NORMAL TIME.
THE OTHER
QUESTION IS,
DOES THAT LEAD
TO VIOLENCE?
AND I DON'T KNOW OF ANY
RESEARCH THAT SHOWS THAT.
I WOULD SAY NOT,
IN ALL LIKELIHOOD.
THERE CERTAINLY
WILL BE SOME KIDS
THAT WILL GRAVITATE
TO GUNS LATER ON,
BUT I THINK ALL BOYS
THAT I KNOW OF
GO THROUGH PERIODS WHEN THEY
JUST WANT TO BE AGGRESSIVE
AND USE THEIR FINGERS
IF THEY HAVEN'T GOT--
SO, YOU DON'T THINK
THAT I SHOULD BE STOPPING
THEM FROM DOING THAT?
STOPPING THEM NO,
'CAUSE I DON'T
THINK YOU CAN.
BUT, I GUESS USING OTHER WAYS OF
LETTING 'EM KNOW ABOUT VIOLENCE
AND ABOUT WHAT VIOLENCE
MEANS TO OTHER PEOPLE.
THE TIME I THINK WHEN
KIDS BEGIN TO UNDERSTAND
OTHER PEOPLE, UH,
CALLED ALTRUISM,
IS WHEN THEY BEGIN
TO REALIZE WHAT I DO
AFFECTS OTHER PEOPLE,
TO BEGIN TO REALIZE THAT
OTHER PEOPLE ARE FRIGHTENED
OR THAT THEY MIGHT, YOU KNOW--
SOME OF THIS GUNPLAY
IS REALLY MEANINGFUL,
AND I WOULD LOOK FOR THAT
ABOUT FIVE OR SIX.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS
I WONDER ABOUT
IS WHETHER KIDS DON'T NEED
SOME SORT OF DISCIPLINE
TO HELP THEM
CONTROL THEMSELVES
WHEN THEY BEGIN TO GET
TOO VIOLENT OR TOO AGGRESSIVE.
AND MAYBE THAT'S A TIME
WHEN THEY'RE FOUR AND FIVE
WHEN THEY ARE
GETTING OUT OF HAND
THAT YOU NEED TO SIT
DOWN CALMLY WITH THEM
- AND JUST SAY,
"WE CAN'T DO THAT."
- OKAY.
AND IT'S A TIME WHEN
PUNISHMENT ISN'T THE
SAME AS DISCIPLINE.
DISCIPLINE IS LEARNING,
BUT PUNISHMENT ISN'T.
OKAY, THANK YOU.
- MINE'S A DISCIPLINE QUESTION.
- UH-HUH.
I HAVE A CHILD IN MY CLASS
WHO WILL NOT LISTEN.
I WAS USING
A HOT GLUE GUN
THE OTHER DAY,
AND I'M TALKING
25 TIMES HE ASKED ME,
"WHY CAN'T I TOUCH THE GLUE?
WHY CAN'T I TOUCH IT?"
AND EVERY TIME,
"WELL, IT'S HOT.
IT WILL BURN YOU."
"WHY CAN'T I TOUCH IT?"
AND SO FINALLY HE JUST STUCK
HIS FINGER UP TO THE KNUCKLE.
I MEAN, HE DIDN'T
REALLY GET A BURN,
BUT IT HURT
AND HE WAS CRYING,
AND I DON'T KNOW HOW
THAT HAPPENS ALL DAY LONG.
- HOW OLD IS HE?
- HE'S FOUR.
FOUR.
THE OTHER
PART OF IT IS,
WHEN I EXPLAIN HIM TO
COLLEAGUES OR FRIENDS
THAT HE'S LIKE A CAT,
HOW A CAT JUST STANDS UP
AND BOLTS OUT OF THE ROOM
FOR NO APPARENT REASON.
HE'LL BE SITTING THERE
IN ONE AREA,
STAND UP, AND
AS FAST AS HE CAN
RUN ACROSS THE ROOM
AND HIT ANOTHER KID
THAT HE HASN'T SPOKEN TO,
THAT THEY'VE HAD NO INTERACTION
FOR THE PAST 20 MINUTES.
- AND IT'S JUST--
- SO HE'S REALLY
A DIFFICULT KID, ISN'T HE?
- YEAH, BUT--
- I WONDER HOW DEEP IT GOES,
WHETHER HE ISN'T A CHILD
WHO'S REALLY PRETTY UPSET
AND WHO NEEDS SOME HELP.
IT'S JUST,
I DON'T KNOW HOW--
ANY WAY OF GETTING TO
HIS PARENTS SO THEY CAN
GET SOME HELP FOR HIM?
DAD'S NOT IN THE PICTURE
TOO MUCH I GUESS,
SO MOM AND I ARE CONFERENCING,
AND THEN YOU FEEL BAD FOR HER.
- SURE.
- THERE ARE A LOT
OF HITTING ISSUES,
AND THEN YOU GET TO THE POINT
WHERE EVERY DAY YOU'RE
TALKING TO HIS MOTHER.
HE'S LUCKY TO HAVE YOU,
THOUGH, AS A MALE FIGURE,
AND FORTUNATELY, A LITTLE BOY
IS MORE LIKELY TO TAKE IT
AND HAVE IT BECOME
MEANINGFUL TO HIM
FROM A MALE.
THAT'S WHY MEN ARE
SO VALUABLE IN CHILDCARE.
THEY ALL FOLLOW YOU AROUND.
VERY REWARDING.
SEE, I CAN UNDERSTAND
IF HE HITS.
IF SOMEBODY TAKES A TOY
FROM HIM AND HE HITS HIM,
I DON'T AGREE WITH IT
AND I DON'T THINK IT'S RIGHT,
- BUT YOU UNDERSTAND
THERE'S A MOTIVATION.
- THAT'S RIGHT.
IT'S THE
UNMOTIVATED ATTACKS.
SO WE HAVE THIS
HITTING PILLOW THAT,
WHEN HE FELT HE NEEDED TO HIT,
- HE WENT TO HIS BIN, GOT IT--
- DOES THAT WORK?
DOES IT HELP?
HE JUST LOOKED AT ME
AND SAID, "NO."
I SAID, "WELL--"
HE WAS LIKE, "NO.
HOW ABOUT I JUST PROMISE
I WON'T HIT ANYMORE?"
- AND SINCE HE PROMISED THAT,
HE HASN'T HAD A HITTING ISSUE.
- SO HE'S TRYING, ISN'T HE?
- THAT SOUNDS FABULOUS.
- I THOUGHT IT WAS A GOOD IDEA.
I BROKE MY ELBOW PATTING MYSELF
ON THE BACK WITH THAT ONE.
HE DIDN'T
CARE FOR IT TOO MUCH!
WELL, I'LL PAT YOU
ON THE BACK TOO.
I THINK HE'S VERY BRIGHT,
IF HE CAN SPEAK HIS MIND.
HE JUST WAS LIKE,
"I DON'T WANT THAT PILLOW."
Brazelton:
YEAH.  ONE THING
I WOULD CERTAINLY SUGGEST
AFTER HE'S DONE SOMETHING
LIKE THIS, LOST CONTROL,
DON'T JUST COMFORT
THE OTHER CHILD
BUT PICK HIM UP AND SAY,
"IT'S REALLY TOUGH, ISN'T IT?
AND I DON'T LIKE
YOU DOING THAT.
THIS OTHER CHILD
DOESN'T LIKE IT,
AND I'LL BET YOU DON'T LIKE IT,
AND WE GOTTA WORK ON THIS."
AND THEN IF YOU SEE HIM
JUST START TO DART,
SAY, "WE GOTTA STOP."
SIT DOWN WITH HIM AND SAY,
"EVERY TIME YOU GO AFTER A KID,
IT REALLY MAKES ME
UPSET WITH YOU.
- "IS THERE A WAY WE CAN STOP
BEFORE YOU HAVE TO DO IT?"
- OKAY.
"CAN YOU YELL AT ME
OR KICK AT ME OR JUST LET ME
KNOW THAT YOU'RE GETTING UPSET
AND YOU NEED SOME HELP?"
AND SEE IF THERE'S
SOMETHING HE CAN SUGGEST
THAT YOU COULD DO
TO BREAK THE CYCLE
BEFORE HE HAS TO THROW
HIMSELF OUT OF IT.
- OKAY.
- SEE IF THAT WORKS.
- THANKS A LOT.
- GREAT.
GOOD MORNING, DOCTOR.
I HAVE A
THREE-YEAR-OLD SON,
VERY VIVID IMAGINATION,
VERY OUTGOING.
HALLOWEEN IS COMING.
WE HAD SELECTED A PIRATE
COSTUME TOGETHER.
AND HE RECENTLY
CHANGED HIS MIND
AND HAS DECIDED THAT
HE WILL BE NOTHING
OTHER THAN A WITCH.
AND I DON'T HAVE
A PROBLEM WITH IT.
MY HUSBAND'S OKAY WITH IT.
I'M JUST, I GUESS,
CONCERNED WITH OTHER
PEOPLE'S REACTIONS
TO A BOY
BEING A WITCH.
I MEAN, IT COULD BE WORSE.
HE COULD WANT TO BE
A PRINCESS, BUT--
YOU'RE EXPOSING
YOUR BIASES,
I CAN TELL YOU.
WHAT IS THIS
BIAS ALL ABOUT?
NO, I GUESS I'M JUST
CONCERNED WITH, YOU KNOW,
TAKING HIM TRICK-OR-TREATING
AND OTHER PEOPLE REACTING
IN A NEGATIVE WAY TO HIM.
HE'S FUNNY,
YOU KNOW.
WE GET READY IN THE MORNING,
AND ONE MORNING IT'S--
HE WANTS TO PLAY WITH MY MAKEUP
AND OTHER MORNINGS HE'LL BE,
"DADDY, YOU HAVE
TO SHAVE ME."
AND MY HUSBAND WILL PUT
SHAVING CREAM ON HIM
AND PRETEND TO SHAVE HIS FACE,
AND HE THINKS THAT'S GREAT.
AND IT'S A WHOLE GENDER
IDENTITY THING AT THIS AGE,
AND I'M OKAY WITH THAT.
- ALMOST OKAY.
- WELL, NO.
NOT OKAY.
I'M MORE CONCERNED
WITH OTHER PEOPLE'S
REACTIONS TO IT
AND HOW THAT'S GOING
TO MAKE HIM FEEL.
I, YOU KNOW,
I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM.
I JUST DON'T WANT HIM BEING HURT
BY SOMEONE ELSE'S REACTION TO--
WELL, THEN THE FIRST STEP IS TO
GET YOUR OWN REACTIONS STRAIGHT.
OKAY.
BECAUSE YOU DO HAVE
SOME FEELINGS ABOUT IT.
I THINK EVERY MOTHER DOES,
AND WHEN A LITTLE BOY,
THREE OR FOUR,
BEGINS TO WANT TO WEAR WOMEN'S
CLOTHES OR WOMEN'S MAKEUP,
EVERY MOTHER IN AMERICA
GOES PANICKY.
SO DON'T TELL ME
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY--
SO, HOW ABOUT THAT?
I THINK IT'S ON
THE FRINGE OF OUR MINDS,
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S,
YOU KNOW, AN ISSUE.
- I JUST--
- WELL, YOU KNOW,
I THINK IT IS THERE.
AND I THINK YOU ALL OUGHT TO
TALK ABOUT IT AND GET IT OUT,
BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT ALL
THREE- AND FOUR-YEAR-OLD
LITTLE BOYS NEED TO DO.
THEY NEED TO ACT LIKE THEIR
MOMMIES ONE TIME AND GET,
YOU KNOW,
EVEN DRESS LIKE 'EM,
PUT ON MAKE-UP LIKE 'EM,
BECOME LIKE 'EM.
AND THEN THE NEXT MONTH OR TWO
IT'LL BE THEIR DADDIES,
LIKE HE'S DOING ALREADY
WITH THE SHAVING.
I REALLY,
I'M OKAY WITH IT.
I DON'T WANT HIM TO GET HURT
BY OTHER PEOPLE'S JUDGMENTS.
I'M NOT SURE HE'LL
BE HURT BY THEM,
- BUT I THINK HE
MIGHT BE BY YOURS.
- OKAY.
HOW ARE MEN GONNA LEARN
TO BE NURTURING THESE DAYS
UNLESS THEY IDENTIFY WITH
A FEMALE PART OF THE FAMILY?
AND THE OTHER IS HE'LL
LEARN ABOUT HIS DADDY,
AND HE'LL MAKE
HIS OWN CHOICES.
- I MEAN, WE ALL KNOW THAT.
- OKAY.
SO YOU ALL GET IT STRAIGHT,
AND THAT MEANS YOU
AND HIS DADDY
HAVE TO SIT DOWN
AND TALK ABOUT IT AND
GET COMFORTABLE ABOUT IT,
AND THEN NOT OVERREACT
WHEN HE WANTS TO DO
SOME OF THESE THINGS,
WHICH HE'S GOT TO DO.
OKAY, THANK YOU.
YOU FEEL GOOD?
Brazelton:
FOR TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS CALL:
OR LOG ON AT:
Announcer:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
I HOPE YOU'VE COME
TO A BETTER UNDERSTANDING
OF WHAT IT MEANS
TO BE A BOY,
AND HOW YOU AS A PARENT
CAN HELP YOUR SON
WITH HIS UNIQUE NEEDS
AND CONCERNS--
MOTHERS, BY SHOWING HIM HOW
TO EMBRACE HIS NURTURING SIDE,
FATHERS, BY MODELING
THE WELL-ROUNDED PERSON
YOU WANT YOUR BOY TO BE.
( theme music playing )